Slug: 10.36903/physiome.16828756
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.16828756
SubmissionID: 666b4e7c-b860-482f-9bdc-63a66ff25fc6
ManuscriptID: S000013
Title: Mathematical model of excitation-contraction in a uterine smooth muscle cell
Date: 2021-10-27
SubmissionDate: 2021-10-03
PublishDate: 2021-10-27
LastPublishDate: 2021-10-27
Curator:
Kind: Original Article
PubAuthors: Ai, W.
    Freifeld, L.
    Nickerson, D. P.
PubAuthorsORCID: 0000-0001-5602-5707
    0000-0002-0739-6947
    0000-0003-4667-9779
PMRURL: https://models.physiomeproject.org/workspace/6bb
PrimaryPaperName: Mathematical model of excitation-contraction in a uterine smooth muscle cell. 2007, L. Bursztyn, O. Eytan, A.J. Jaffa, D. Elad
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpcell.00478.2006
FulltextURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Mathematical_model_of_excitation-contraction_in_a_uterine_smooth_muscle_cell/16828756
ArchiveURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Mathematical_model_of_excitation-contraction_in_a_uterine_smooth_muscle_cell/16828756
Abstract: The Bursztyn et al. (2007) paper proposes a mathematical model of excitation-contraction in a myometrial smooth muscle cell (SMC). The model incorporates processes of intracellular Ca^2+ concentration control, myosin light chain (MLC) phosphorylation and stress production. We create a modularized CellML implementation of the model, which is able to simulate these processes against the original data.
References: 1. Mathematical model of excitation-contraction in a uterine smooth muscle cell. Journal: American Journal of Physiology-Cell Physiology. Bursztyn, Limor and Eytan, Osnat and Jaffa, Ariel J and Elad, David. Volume: 292. Year: 2007.  <br />2. Carboxyeosin decreases the rate of decay of the [Ca 2+] i transient in uterine smooth muscle cells isolated from pregnant rats. Journal: Pfl{\"u}gers Archiv. Shmigol, A and Eisner, DA and Wray, Susan. Volume: 437. Year: 1998.  <br />3. Cross-bridge phosphorylation and regulation of latch state in smooth muscle. Journal: American Journal of Physiology-Cell Physiology. Hai, Chi-Ming and Murphy, Richard A. Volume: 254. Year: 1988.  <br />4. Minimal model of arterial chaos generated by coupled intracellular and membrane Ca2+ oscillators. Journal: American Journal of Physiology-Heart and Circulatory Physiology. Parthimos, Dimitris and Edwards, David Hughes and Griffith, TM. Volume: 277. Year: 1999.  <br />5. Single-channel recording. Journal: General Pharmacology: The Vascular System. B. Sakmann and E. Neher. Volume: 27. Year: 1996.  <br />6. Reproducible computational biology experiments with {SED}-{ML} - {The} {Simulation} {Experiment} {Description} {Markup} {Language}. Journal: BMC Systems Biology. Waltemath, Dagmar and Adams, Richard and Bergmann, Frank T. and Hucka, Michael and Kolpakov, Fedor and Miller, Andrew K. and Moraru, Ion I. and Nickerson, David and Sahle, Sven and Snoep, Jacky L. and Novère, Nicolas Le. Volume: 5. Year: 2011.  <br />7. {OpenCOR}: a modular and interoperable approach to computational biology. Journal: Front Physiol. Garny, Alan and Hunter, Peter J.. Volume: 6. Year: 2015.  <br />8. markummitchell/engauge-digitizer: {Nonrelease}. Year: 2020.  <br />