Slug: 10.36903/physiome.12964970
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.12964970
SubmissionID: a1a3b7a5-44f4-48af-a68e-283a5518d072
ManuscriptID: S000007
Title: Computational Modeling of Coupled Energetics and Mechanics in the Rat Ventricular Myocardium
Date: 2020-09-24
SubmissionDate: 2020-09-14
PublishDate: 2020-09-24
LastPublishDate: 2020-09-24
Curator: David Nickerson
Kind: Original Article
PubAuthors: Marzban, B.
    Lopez, R.
    Beard, D. A.
PubAuthorsORCID: ​
    ​
    ​
PMRURL: https://github.com/beards-lab/Rat-Cardiac-Energetic
PrimaryPaperName: Impaired Myocardial Energetics Causes Mechanical Dysfunction in Decompensated Failing Hearts. 2020, Lopez, R and Marzban, B and Gao, X and Lauinger, E and Van den Bergh, F and Whitesall, S. E. and Converso-Baran, K and Burant, C. F. and Michele, D. E. and Beard, D. A.
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.1093/function/zqaa018
FulltextURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Computational_Modeling_of_Coupled_Energetics_and_Mechanics_in_the_Rat_Ventricular_Myocardium/12964970
ArchiveURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Computational_Modeling_of_Coupled_Energetics_and_Mechanics_in_the_Rat_Ventricular_Myocardium/12964970
Abstract: This paper details a multi-scale model computational model of myocardial energetics---oxidative ATP synthesis, ATP hydrolysis, and phosphate metabolite kinetics---and myocardial mechanics used to analyze data from a rat model of cardiac decompensation and failure. Combined, these two models simulate cardiac mechano-energetics: the coupling between metabolic production of ATP and hydrolysis of ATP to generate mechanical work. The model is used to predict how differences in energetic metabolic state  found in failing versus control hearts causally contribute to systolic mechanical dysfunction in heart failure. This Physiome paper describes how to access, run, and manipulate these computer models, how to parameterize the models to match data, and how to compare model predictions to data.
References: 1. Impaired Myocardial Energetics Causes Mechanical Dysfunction in Decompensated Failing Hearts. Journal: ???. Lopez, R and Marzban, B and Gao, X and Lauinger, E and Van den Bergh, F and Whitesall, S. E. and Converso-Baran, K and Burant, C. F. and Michele, D. E. and Beard, D. A.. Volume: ??. Year: 2020.  <br />2. Catalytic Coupling of Oxidative Phosphorylation, ATP Demand, and Reactive Oxygen Species Generation. Journal: Biophys J. Bazil, J. N. and Beard, D. A. and Vinnakota, K. C.. Volume: 110. Year: 2016.  <br />3. Three-wall segment (TriSeg) model describing mechanics and hemodynamics of ventricular interaction. Journal: Ann Biomed Eng. Lumens, J. and Delhaas, T. and Kirn, B. and Arts, T.. Volume: 37. Year: 2009.  <br />4. Cardiac Metabolic Limitations Contribute to Diminished Performance of the Heart in Aging. Journal: Biophys J. Gao, X. and Jakovljevic, D. G. and Beard, D. A.. Volume: 117. Year: 2019.  <br />5. Force-Dependent Recruitment from the Myosin Off State Contributes to Length-Dependent Activation. Journal: Biophys J. Campbell, K. S. and Janssen, P. M. L. and Campbell, S. G.. Volume: 115. Year: 2018.  <br />6. Myofilament properties comprise the rate-limiting step for cardiac relaxation at body temperature in the rat. Journal: Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. Janssen, P.M. and Stull, L. B. and Marbán, E.. Volume: 282. Year: 2002.  <br />7. Multiple ion binding equilibria, reaction kinetics, and thermodynamics in dynamic models of biochemical pathways. Journal: Methods Enzymol. Vinnakota, K. C. and Wu, F. and Kushmerick, M. J. and Beard, D. A.. Volume: 454. Year: 2009.  <br />8. Blood-perfused working isolated rat heart. Journal: Journal of Applied Physiology. Duvelleroy, M. A. and Duruble, M. and Martin, J. L. and Teisseire, B. and Droulez, J. and Cain, M.. Volume: 41. Year: 1976.  <br />9. Inferring crossbridge properties from skeletal muscle energetics. Journal: Progress in biophysics and molecular biology. Barclay, C. J. and Woodledge, R. C. and Curtin, N. A.. Volume: 102. Year: 2010.  <br />10. Approximate model of cooperative activation and crossbridge cycling in cardiac muscle using ordinary differential equations. Journal: Biophysical Journal. Rice, J. J. and Wang, F. and Bers, D. M. and {De Tombe}, P. P.. Volume: 95. Year: 2008.  <br />11. {Phosphate metabolite concentrations and ATP hydrolysis potential in normal and ischaemic hearts}. Journal: Journal of Physiology. Wu, Fan and Zhang, Eric Y. and Zhang, Jianyi and Bache, Robert J. and Beard, Daniel A.. Volume: 586. Year: 2008.  <br />