Slug: 10.36903/physiome.16664248
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.16664248
SubmissionID: a006c2ce-d7a7-4dec-8c9b-d99efbad2430
ManuscriptID: S000012
Title: A kinetic model of beta-adrenergic control in cardiac myocytes
Date: 2021-09-23
SubmissionDate: 2021-09-03
PublishDate: 2021-09-23
LastPublishDate: 2021-09-23
Curator:
Kind: Original Article
PubAuthors: Fong, S.
    Saucerman, J. J.
PubAuthorsORCID: 0000-0001-8610-1088
    0000-0001-9464-8374
PMRURL: https://models.physiomeproject.org/workspace/6fa
PrimaryPaperName: Modeling β-Adrenergic Control of Cardiac Myocyte Contractility in Silico *. 2003, J.J. Saucerman, L.L. Brunton, A.P. Michailova, A.D. McCulloch
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.m308362200
FulltextURL: https://figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/A_kinetic_model_of_beta-adrenergic_control_in_cardiac_myocytes/16664248
ArchiveURL: https://figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/A_kinetic_model_of_beta-adrenergic_control_in_cardiac_myocytes/16664248
Abstract: The system of equations and figures presented in Saucerman et al. (2003) are verified and reproduced in this paper's curation effort. These checks are performed in MATLAB. With some parameter additions and modifications, we can reproduce all figures with small mismatches.
References: 1. Modeling $\beta$-adrenergic control of cardiac myocyte contractility in silico. Journal: Journal of Biological Chemistry. Saucerman, Jeffrey J and Brunton, Laurence L and Michailova, Anushka P and McCulloch, Andrew D. Volume: 278. Year: 2003.  <br />2. Cardiac Ca2+ dynamics: the roles of ryanodine receptor adaptation and sarcoplasmic reticulum load. Journal: Biophysical journal. Jafri, M Saleet and Rice, J Jeremy and Winslow, Raimond L. Volume: 74. Year: 1998.  <br />3. Excitation-contraction coupling and cardiac contractile force. Bers, Donald. Volume: 237. Year: 2001.  <br />4. Density of fat and bone mineral of the mammalian body.. Journal: Metabolism. Mendez, J and Keys, A and Anderson, JT and Grande, F and others. Volume: 9. Year: 1960.  <br />5. An Overview of CellML 1.1, a Biological Model Description Language. Journal: SIMULATION. Autumn A. Cuellar and Catherine M. Lloyd and Poul F. Nielsen and David P. Bullivant and David P. Nickerson and Peter J. Hunter. Volume: 79. Year: 2003.  <br />6. MATLAB version 9.3.0713579 (R2017b). Year: 2017.  <br />7. The matlab ode suite. Journal: SIAM journal on scientific computing. Shampine, Lawrence F and Reichelt, Mark W. Volume: 18. Year: 1997.  <br />8. The FAIR Guiding Principles for scientific data management and stewardship. Journal: Scientific data. Wilkinson, Mark D and Dumontier, Michel and Aalbersberg, IJsbrand Jan and Appleton, Gabrielle and Axton, Myles and Baak, Arie and Blomberg, Niklas and Boiten, Jan-Willem and da Silva Santos, Luiz Bonino and Bourne, Philip E and others. Volume: 3. Year: 2016.  <br />