Slug: 10.36903/physiome.19070171
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.19070171
SubmissionID: b987ddcf-0015-4027-8fbf-e04a8e291c0c
ManuscriptID: S000014
Title: Spindle Model Responsive to Mixed Fusimotor Inputs: an updated version of the Maltenfort and Burke (2003) model
Date: 2022-01-27
SubmissionDate: 2022-01-11
PublishDate: 2022-01-27
LastPublishDate: 2022-01-27
Curator: Shelley Fong
Kind: Retrospective Article
PubAuthors: Schmid, L.
    Klotz, T.
    Yavuz, U. Ş.
    Maltenfort, M.
    Röhrle, O.
PubAuthorsORCID: 0000-0002-1781-8429
    0000-0002-0503-9815
    0000-0002-6968-8064
    0000-0002-0141-1720
    0000-0002-1934-6525
PMRURL: None
PrimaryPaperName: Spindle Model Responsive to Mixed Fusimotor Inputs and Testable Predictions of β Feedback Effects. 2003, M.G. Maltenfort, R.E. Burke
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.1152/jn.00942.2002
FulltextURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Spindle_Model_Responsive_to_Mixed_Fusimotor_Inputs_an_updated_version_of_the_Maltenfort_and_Burke_2003_model/19070171
ArchiveURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Spindle_Model_Responsive_to_Mixed_Fusimotor_Inputs_an_updated_version_of_the_Maltenfort_and_Burke_2003_model/19070171
Abstract: The muscle spindle model presented in Maltenfort and Burke (2003) calculates muscle spindle primary afferent feedback depending on the muscle fibre stretch and fusimotor drive. The aim of this paper is to provide an updated version of the model, which is now capable of replicating the originally published data. This is achieved by modifying the equations describing the modulation of the muscle spindle output in response to dynamic fusimotor drive. EDITOR'S NOTE V2: Showing manuscript and model files.
References: 1. Response characteristics of muscle spindle endings at constant length to variations in fusimotor activation. Journal: Acta Physiologica Scandinavica. Andersson, Bengt F and Lennerstrand, Gunnar and Thoden, Uwe. Volume: 74. Year: 1968.  <br />2. The motor innervation of mammalian muscle spindles. Journal: Progress in neurobiology. Banks, RW. Volume: 43. Year: 1994.  <br />3. Histochemical and physiological profile of a skeletofusimotor ($\beta$) unit in cat soleus muscle. Journal: Brain research. Burke, Robert E and Tsairis, Peter. Volume: 129. Year: 1977.  <br />4. The effects of stimulation of static and dynamic fusimotor fibres on the response to stretching of the primary endings of muscle spindles. Journal: The Journal of physiology. Crowe, A and Matthews, PBC. Volume: 174. Year: 1964.  <br />5. OpenCOR: a modular and interoperable approach to computational biology. Journal: Frontiers in Physiology. Garny, Alan and Hunter, Peter J.. Volume: 6. Year: 2015.  <br />6. Model-based prediction of fusimotor activity and its effect on muscle spindle activity during voluntary wrist movements. Journal: Journal of computational neuroscience. Grandjean, Bernard and Maier, Marc A. Volume: 37. Year: 2014.  <br />7. Static and dynamic fusimotor action on the response of Ia fibres to low frequency sinusoidal stretching of widely ranging amplitude. Journal: The Journal of physiology. Hulliger, M and Matthews, PBC and Noth, J. Volume: 267. Year: 1977.  <br />8. Effects of combining static and dynamic fusimotor stimulation on the response of the muscle spindle primary ending to sinusoidal stretching.. Journal: The Journal of physiology. Hulliger, M and Matthews, PB and Noth, J. Volume: 267. Year: 1977.  <br />9. Principles of neural science. Kandel, Eric R and Schwartz, James H and Jessell, Thomas M and Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics Thomas Jessell and Siegelbaum, Steven and Hudspeth, AJ. Volume: 4. Year: 2000.  <br />10. Position and velocity sensitivity of muscle spindles in the cat. I. Primary and secondary endings deprived of fusimotor activation. Journal: Acta Physiologica Scandinavica. Lennerstrand, Gunnar. Volume: 73. Year: 1968.  <br />11. Position and velocity sensitivity of muscle spindles in the cat. II. Dynamic fusimotor single-fibre activation of primary endings. Journal: Acta Physiologica Scandinavica. Lennerstrand, Gunnar and Thoden, Uwe. Volume: 74. Year: 1968.  <br />12. Position and velocity sensitivity of muscle spindles in the cat. III. Static fusimotor single-fibre activation of primary and secondary endings. Journal: Acta Physiologica Scandinavica. Lennerstrand, Gunnar and Thoden, Uwe. Volume: 74. Year: 1968.  <br />13. Functional properties of human muscle spindles. Journal: Journal of neurophysiology. Macefield, Vaughan G and Knellwolf, Thomas P. Volume: 120. Year: 2018.  <br />14. Spindle model responsive to mixed fusimotor inputs and testable predictions of $\beta$ feedback effects. Journal: Journal of neurophysiology. Maltenfort, Mitchell G and Burke, RE. Volume: 89. Year: 2003.  <br />15. The differentiation of two types of fusimotor fibre by their effects on the dynamic response of muscle spindle primary endings. Journal: Quarterly Journal of Experimental Physiology and Cognate Medical Sciences: Translation and Integration. Matthews, PBC. Volume: 47. Year: 1962.  <br />16. Multiscale modeling of the neuromuscular system: coupling neurophysiology and skeletal muscle mechanics. Journal: Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Systems Biology and Medicine. R{\"o}hrle, Oliver and Yavuz, Utku {\c{S}} and Klotz, Thomas and Negro, Francesco and Heidlauf, Thomas. Volume: 11. Year: 2019.  <br />17. The discharge frequencies of primary muscle spindle endings during simultaneous stimulation of two fusimotor filaments. Journal: Pfl{\"u}gers Archiv. Sch{\"a}fer, SS. Volume: 350. Year: 1974.  <br />18. A two-muscle, continuum-mechanical forward simulation of the upper limb. Journal: Biomechanics and Modeling in Mechanobiology. R{\"o}hrle, O. and Sprenger, M. and Schmitt, S.. Volume: 16. Year: 2017.  <br />