Slug: 10.36903/physiome.12859424
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.12859424
Title: Bond Graph Model of Cerebral Circulation: Toward Clinically Feasible Systemic Blood Flow Simulations
Date: 2020-08-26
SubmissionDate: 2020-08-25
PublishDate: 2020-08-26
LastPublishDate: 2020-08-26
Curator: Anand Rampadarath
Kind: Original Article
PubAuthors: Su, S.
    Blanco, P. J.
    Müller, L. O.
    Hunter, P. J.
    Safaei, S.
PubAuthorsORCID: 0000-0002-9369-1642
    0000-0001-8402-1092
    0000-0003-1933-8995
    0000-0001-9665-4145
    0000-0001-5734-243X
PMRURL: https://models.physiomeproject.org/workspace/5e0
PrimaryPaperName: Bond Graph Model of Cerebral Circulation: Toward Clinically Feasible Systemic Blood Flow Simulations. 2018, Safaei, S., Blanco, P. J., Müller, L. O., Hellevik, L. R. and Hunter, P. J.
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2018.00148
FulltextURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Bond_Graph_Model_of_Cerebral_Circulation_Toward_Clinically_Feasible_Systemic_Blood_Flow_Simulations/12859424
ArchiveURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Bond_Graph_Model_of_Cerebral_Circulation_Toward_Clinically_Feasible_Systemic_Blood_Flow_Simulations/12859424
Abstract: The primary paper Safaei et al. (2018) proposed an anatomically detailed model of the human cerebral circulation that runs faster than real-time on a desktop computer and is designed for use in clinical settings when the speed of response is important. Based on a one-dimensional formulation of the flow of an incompressible fluid in distensible vessels, a lumped parameter model was developed for 218 arterial segments. The proposed model improved simulation speed by approximately 200-fold while preserved accuracy. Bond graph formulation was used to ensure mass and energy conservation. The model predicted the pressure and flow signatures in the body.
References: 1. Bond Graph Model of Cerebral Circulation: Toward Clinically Feasible Systemic Blood Flow Simulations. Journal: Frontiers in Physiology. Safaei, Soroush and Blanco, Pablo J and Müller, Lucas O and Hellevik, Leif R and Hunter, Peter J. Volume: 9. Year: 2018.  <br />2. An anatomically detailed arterial network model for one-dimensional computational hemodynamics.. Journal: IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. Blanco, Pablo J and Watanabe, Sansuke M and Passos, Marco Aur{\'e}lio RF and Lemos, Pedro A and Feij{\'o}o, Ra{\'u}l A. Volume: 62. Year: 2015.  <br />3. Blood flow distribution in an anatomically detailed arterial network model: criteria and algorithms. Journal: Biomechanics and Modeling in Mechanobiology. Blanco, Pablo J and Watanabe, Sansuke M and Dari, Enzo A and Passos, Marco Aur{\'e}lio RF and Feij{\'o}o, Ra{\'u}l A. Volume: 13. Year: 2014.  <br />4. A dimensionally-heterogeneous closed-loop model for the cardiovascular system and its applications. Journal: Medical Engineering \& Physics. Blanco, Pablo J and Feij{\'o}o, Ra{\'u}l A. Volume: 35. Year: 2013.  <br />