Slug: 10.36903/physiome.16590317
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.16590317
SubmissionID: 6b41ac09-8576-4f38-a273-d8c96d8157fc
ManuscriptID: S000009
Title: A Quantitative Model of Human Jejunal Smooth Muscle Cell Electrophysiology
Date: 2021-09-09
SubmissionDate: 2021-08-08
PublishDate: 2021-09-09
LastPublishDate: 2021-09-09
Curator:
Kind: Original Article
PubAuthors: Ai, W.
    Nickerson, D. P.
PubAuthorsORCID: 0000-0001-5602-5707
    0000-0003-4667-9779
PMRURL: https://models.physiomeproject.org/workspace/692
PrimaryPaperName: A Quantitative Model of Human Jejunal Smooth Muscle Cell Electrophysiology. 2012, Y.C. Poh, A. Corrias, N. Cheng, M.L. Buist
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0042385
FulltextURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/A_Quantitative_Model_of_Human_Jejunal_Smooth_Muscle_Cell_Electrophysiology/16590317
ArchiveURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/A_Quantitative_Model_of_Human_Jejunal_Smooth_Muscle_Cell_Electrophysiology/16590317
Abstract: The Poh et al. (2012) paper describes the first biophysically based computational model of human jejunal smooth muscle cell (hJSMC) electrophysiology. The ionic currents are described by either a traditional Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) formalism or a deterministic multi-state Markov (MM) formalism. We create a modularized CellML implementation of the model, which is able to reproduce clamping behaviours of individual currents and whole cell action potential traces. In addition, some inconsistencies have been uncovered and discussed in this paper. EDITOR'S NOTE (v2): A typographical correction in the reproducibility report was made. (v3): This Abstract was appended with a note on changes made to versions.
References: 1. A quantitative model of human jejunal smooth muscle cell electrophysiology. Poh, Yong Cheng and Corrias, Alberto and Cheng, Nicholas and Buist, Martin Lindsay. Year: 2012.  <br />2. A model for human ventricular tissue. Journal: American Journal of Physiology-Heart and Circulatory Physiology. ten Tusscher, Kirsten HWJ and Noble, Denis and Noble, Peter-John and Panfilov, Alexander V. Volume: 286. Year: 2004.  <br />3. Single-channel recording. Journal: General Pharmacology: The Vascular System. B. Sakmann and E. Neher. Volume: 27. Year: 1996.  <br />4. A quantitative description of membrane current and its application to conduction and excitation in nerve. Journal: The Journal of physiology. Hodgkin, Alan L and Huxley, Andrew F. Volume: 117. Year: 1952.  <br />5. Reproducible computational biology experiments with {SED}-{ML} - {The} {Simulation} {Experiment} {Description} {Markup} {Language}. Journal: BMC Systems Biology. Waltemath, Dagmar and Adams, Richard and Bergmann, Frank T. and Hucka, Michael and Kolpakov, Fedor and Miller, Andrew K. and Moraru, Ion I. and Nickerson, David and Sahle, Sven and Snoep, Jacky L. and Novère, Nicolas Le. Volume: 5. Year: 2011.  <br />6. {OpenCOR}: a modular and interoperable approach to computational biology. Journal: Front Physiol. Garny, Alan and Hunter, Peter J.. Volume: 6. Year: 2015.  <br />7. markummitchell/engauge-digitizer: {Nonrelease}. Year: 2020.  <br />