Slug: 10.36903/physiome.12871022
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.12871022
Title: The Boron & De Weer Model of Intracellular pH Regulation
Date: 2020-08-27
SubmissionDate: 2020-08-25
PublishDate: 2020-08-27
LastPublishDate: 2020-08-27
Curator: Anand Rampadarath
Kind: Review
PubAuthors: Occhipinti, R.
    Safaei, S.
    Hunter, P. J.
    Boron, W. F.
PubAuthorsORCID: 0000-0002-0519-7725
    0000-0001-5734-243X
    0000-0001-9665-4145
    0000-0003-4741-7287
PMRURL: https://models.physiomeproject.org/workspace/5f8
PrimaryPaperName: Intracellular pH transients in squid giant axons caused by CO2, NH3, and metabolic inhibitors. 1976, Boron, W. F. and De Weer, P.
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.1085/jgp.67.1.91
FulltextURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/The_Boron_De_Weer_Model_of_Intracellular_pH_Regulation/12871022
ArchiveURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/The_Boron_De_Weer_Model_of_Intracellular_pH_Regulation/12871022
Abstract: The classic Boron & De Weer (1976) paper provided the first evidence of active regulation of pH} in cells by an energy-dependent acid-base transporter. These authors also developed a quantitative model --- comprising passive fluxes of acid-base equivalents across the cell membrane, intracellular reactions, and an active transport mechanism in the cell membrane (modelled as a proton pump) --- to help interpret their measurements of intracellular pH under perturbations of both extracellular CO2/HCO3- and extracellular NH3/NH4+. This Physiome paper seeks to make that model, and the experimental conditions under which it was developed, available in a reproducible and well-documented form, along with a software implementation that makes the model easy to use and understand. We have also taken the opportunity to update some of the units used in the original paper, and to provide a few parameter values that were missing in the original paper. Finally, we provide an historical background to the Boron & De Weer (1976) proposal for active pH regulation and a commentary on subsequent work that has enriched our understanding of this most basic aspect of cellular physiology.
References: 1. {SED}-{ML} web tools: generate, modify and export standard-compliant simulation studies. Journal: Bioinformatics (Oxford, England). Bergmann, Frank T. and Nickerson, David and Waltemath, Dagmar and Scharm, Martin. Volume: 33. Year: 2017.  <br />2. Manipulation and regulation of cytosolic {pH}. Bevensee, M. O. and Boron, W. F.. Volume: 27. Year: 1995.  <br />3. Control of intracellular {pH}. Bevensee, M. O. and Boron, W. F.. Volume: 2. Year: 2013.  <br />4. Intracellular {pH} transients in giant barnacle muscle fibers. Journal: American Journal of Physiology. Boron, W. F.. Volume: 233. Year: 1977.  <br />5. Regulation of intracellular {pH}. Journal: Advances in Physiology Education. Boron, W. F.. Volume: 28. Year: 2004.  <br />6. Sharpey-{Schafer} lecture: gas channels. Journal: Experimental Physiology. Boron, W. F.. Volume: 95. Year: 2010.  <br />7. Medical {Physiology}. Year: 2016.  <br />8. Journal: Journal of General Physiology. Boron, W. F. and De Weer, P.. Volume: 67. Year: 1976.  <br />9. {pH} regulation in barnacle muscle fibers: dependence on intracellular and extracellular {pH}. Journal: American Journal of Physiology. Boron, W. F. and McCormick, W. C. and Roos, A.. Volume: 237. Year: 1979.  <br />10. Comparison of microelectrode, {DMO}, and methylamine methods for measuring intracellular {pH}. Journal: American Journal of Physiology. Boron, W. F. and Roos, A.. Volume: 231. Year: 1976.  <br />11. Unique permeability barrier of the apical surface of parietal and chief cells in isolated perfused gastric glands. Journal: The Journal of Experimental Biology. Boron, W. F. and Waisbren, S. J. and Modlin, I. M. and Geibel, J. P.. Volume: 196. Year: 1994.  <br />12. Journal: American Journal of Physiology - Renal Physiology. Brasen, Jens Christian and Burford, James L. and McDonough, Alicia A. and Holstein-Rathlou, Niels-Henrik and Peti-Peterdi, Janos. Volume: 307. Year: 2014.  <br />13. Einige {Bemerkungen} über den {Begriff} der {Säuren} und {Basen}. Journal: Recueil des Travaux Chimiques des Pays-Bas. Brönsted, J. N.. Volume: 42. Year: 1923.  <br />14. Computational model of electrode-induced microenvironmental effects on {pH} measurements near a cell membrane. Journal: SIAM Multiscale Modeling \& Simulation. Calvetti, D. and Prezioso, J. and Occhipinti, Rossana and Boron, W. F. and Somersalo, E.. Volume: (in press). Year: 2020.  <br />15. An Overview of {CellML} 1.1, a Biological Model Description Language. Journal: Simulation. Cuellar, Autumn A. and Lloyd, Catherine M. and Nielsen, Poul F. and Bullivant, David P. and Nickerson, David P. and Hunter, Peter J.. Volume: 79. Year: 2003.  <br />16. Cell Volume Regulation in the Proximal Tubule of Rat Kidney. Journal: Bulletin of Mathematical Biology. Edwards, Aurélie and Layton, Anita T.. Volume: 79. Year: 2017.  <br />17. Mathematical Modeling in Renal Physiology. Layton, Anyta T. and Edwards, Aurelie. Year: 2014.  <br />18. Extra- and intracellular unstirred layer effects in measurements of {CO}$_{\textrm{2}}$ $^{\textrm{18}}${O} technique for red blood cells. Journal: The Journal of Physiology. Endeward, Volker and Gros, Gerolf. Volume: 587. Year: 2009.  <br />19. Journal: The FASEB Journal. Endeward, V. and Musa-Aziz, R. and Cooper, G. J. and Chen, L. M. and Pelletier, M. F. and Virkki, L. V. and Supuran, C. T. and King, L. S. and Boron, W. F. and Gros, G.. Volume: 20. Year: 2006.  <br />20. The Ionization Constant of Carbonic Acid in Water and the Solubility of Carbon Dioxide in Water and Aqueous Salt Solutions from 0 to 50°. Journal: Journal of the American Chemical Society. Harned, Herbert S. and Davis, Raymond. Volume: 65. Year: 1943.  <br />21. Blood as a {Physicochemical} {System}. Journal: Journal of Biological Chemistry. Henderson, L. J.. Volume: 46. Year: 1921.  <br />22. Some aspects of cell permeability to weak electrolytes. Jacobs, M. H.. Volume: 8. Year: 1940.  <br />23. Membrane permeability to the molecular and ionic forms of {DMO} in barnacle muscle. Journal: American Journal of Physiology. Keifer, D. W. and Roos, A.. Volume: 240. Year: 1981.  <br />24. Über die {Wirkung} von {Moderatoren} ({Puffern}) bei der {Verschiebung} des {Säure}-{Basengleichgewichtes} in biologischen {Flüssigkeiten}. Journal: Biochemische Zeitung. Koppel, M. \& Spiro, K.. Volume: 65. Year: 1914.  <br />25. Acid/base transport in a model of the proximal tubule brush border: impact of carbonic anhydrase. Journal: American Journal of Physiology - Renal Physiology. Krahn, T. A. and Weinstein, A. M.. Volume: 270. Year: 1996.  <br />26. Characterization of intracellular {pH} regulation in the guinea-pig ventricular myocyte. Journal: The Journal of Physiology. Leem, C. H. and Lagadic-Gossmann, D. and Vaughan-Jones, R. D.. Volume: 517 ( Pt 1). Year: 1999.  <br />27. Non-ionic diffusion and the excretion of weak acids and bases. Journal: The American Journal of Medicine. Milne, M. D. and Scribner, B. H. and Crawford, M. A.. Volume: 24. Year: 1958.  <br />28. Using fluorometry and ion-sensitive microelectrodes to study the functional expression of heterologously-expressed ion channels and transporters in \textit{{Xenopus}} oocytes. Journal: Methods. Musa-Aziz, Raif and Boron, Walter F. and Parker, Mark D.. Volume: 51. Year: 2010.  <br />29. Journal: American Journal of Physiology - Cell Physiology. Occhipinti, Rossana and Musa-Aziz, Raif and Boron, Walter F.. Volume: 307. Year: 2014.  <br />30. Mathematical modeling of acid-base physiology. Journal: Progress in Biophysics and Molecular Biology. Occhipinti, Rossana and Boron, Walter F.. Volume: 117. Year: 2015.  <br />31. The mechanism of the excretion of ammonia in the dog. Journal: The Journal of Clinical Investigation. Orloff, J. and Berliner, R. W.. Volume: 35. Year: 1956.  <br />32. Intracellular {pH} and intracellular buffering power of the cat brain. Journal: American Journal of Physiology. Roos, A.. Volume: 209. Year: 1965.  <br />33. Intracellular {pH} and distribution of weak acids across cell membranes. {A} study of {D}- and {L}-lactate and of {DMO} in rat diaphragm. Journal: The Journal of Physiology. Roos, A.. Volume: 249. Year: 1975.  <br />34. The buffer value of weak acids and bases: origin of the concept, and first mathematical derivation and application to physico-chemical systems. {The} work of {M}. {Koppel} and {K}. {Spiro} (1914). Journal: Respiration Physiology. Roos, A. and Boron, W. F.. Volume: 40. Year: 1980.  <br />35. Intracellular {pH}. Journal: Physiological Reviews. Roos, A. and Boron, W. F.. Volume: 61. Year: 1981.  <br />36. A reaction-diffusion model of {CO}$_{\textrm{2}}$ influx into an oocyte. Journal: Journal of Theoretical Biology. Somersalo, Erkki and Occhipinti, Rossana and Boron, Walter F. and Calvetti, Daniela. Volume: 309. Year: 2012.  <br />37. Über die {Messung} und die {Bedeutung} der {Wasserstoffionenkonzentration} bei enzymatischen {Prozessen}. Sørensen, Søren Peter Lauritz. Year: 1909.  <br />38. Experimental Generation and Computational Modeling of Intracellular {pH} Gradients in Cardiac Myocytes. Journal: Biophysical Journal. Swietach, Pawel and Leem, Chae-Hun and Spitzer, Kenneth W. and Vaughan-Jones, Richard D.. Volume: 88. Year: 2005.  <br />39. The role of carbonic anhydrase 9 in regulating extracellular and intracellular {pH} in three-dimensional tumor cell growths. Journal: The Journal of Biological Chemistry. Swietach, Pawel and Patiar, Shalini and Supuran, Claudiu T. and Harris, Adrian L. and Vaughan-Jones, Richard D.. Volume: 284. Year: 2009.  <br />40. Tumor-associated carbonic anhydrase 9 spatially coordinates intracellular {pH} in three-dimensional multicellular growths. Journal: The Journal of Biological Chemistry. Swietach, Pawel and Wigfield, Simon and Cobden, Philip and Supuran, Claudiu T. and Harris, Adrian L. and Vaughan-Jones, Richard D.. Volume: 283. Year: 2008.  <br />41. Modelling intracellular {H}$^{\textrm{+}}$ ion diffusion. Journal: Progress in Biophysics and Molecular Biology. Swietach, Pawel and Zaniboni, Massimiliano and Stewart, Andrew K. and Rossini, Alessandra and Spitzer, Kenneth W. and Vaughan-Jones, Richard D.. Volume: 83. Year: 2003.  <br />42. A kinetic model of rat proximal tubule transport—{Load}-dependent bicarbonate reabsorption along the tubule. Journal: Bulletin of Mathematical Biology. Thomas, S. Randall and Dagher, George. Volume: 56. Year: 1994.  <br />43. Kidney Modeling: Status and Perspectives. Journal: Proceedings of the IEEE. Thomas, S. R. and Layton, A. T. and Layton, H. E. and Moore, L. C.. Volume: 94. Year: 2006.  <br />44. On the measurement of buffer values and on the relationship of buffer value to the dissociation constant of the buffer and the concentration and reaction of the buffer solution. Journal: Journal of Biological Chemistry. Van Slyke, Donald D.. Volume: 52. Year: 1922.  <br />45. Intrinsic {H}$^{\textrm{+}}$ ion mobility in the rabbit ventricular myocyte. Journal: The Journal of Physiology. Vaughan-Jones, R. D. and Peercy, B. E. and Keener, J. P. and Spitzer, K. W.. Volume: 541. Year: 2002.  <br />46. Unusual permeability properties of gastric gland cells. Journal: Nature. Waisbren, S. J. and Geibel, J. P. and Modlin, I. M. and Boron, W. F.. Volume: 368. Year: 1994.  <br />47. Modeling Proximal Tubule Cell Homeostasis: Tracking Changes in Luminal Flow. Journal: Bulletin of Mathematical Biology. Weinstein, Alan M. and Sontag, Eduardo D.. Volume: 71. Year: 2009.  <br />48. Flow-dependent transport in a mathematical model of rat proximal tubule. Journal: American Journal of Physiology - Renal Physiology. Weinstein, Alan M. and Weinbaum, Sheldon and Duan, Yi and Du, Zhaopeng and Yan, Qingshang and Wang, Tong. Volume: 292. Year: 2007.  <br />49. Journal: Isotopes in Environmental and Health Studies. Wunder, M. and Böllert, P. and Gros, G.. Volume: 33. Year: 1997.  <br />50. Intracellular proton mobility and buffering power in cardiac ventricular myocytes from rat, rabbit, and guinea pig. Journal: American Journal of Physiology-Heart and Circulatory Physiology. Zaniboni, Massimiliano and Swietach, Pawel and Rossini, Alessandra and Yamamoto, Taku and Spitzer, Kenneth W. and Vaughan-Jones, Richard D.. Volume: 285. Year: 2003.  <br />51. A quantitative description of membrane current and its application to conduction and excitation in nerve. Journal: The Journal of Physiology. Hodgkin, Alan L. and Huxley, Andrew F.. Volume: 117. Year: 1952.  <br />52. Potential, impedance, and rectification in membranes. Journal: Journal of General Physiology. Goldman, David E.. Volume: 27. Year: 1943.  <br />