Slug: 10.36903/physiome.13034423
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.13034423
SubmissionID: 2e5089b6-61b7-4c5d-beb6-fa4a80e5b89d
ManuscriptID: S000008
Title: Computational Modelling of Glucose Uptake in the Enterocyte
Date: 2020-10-01
SubmissionDate: 2020-09-29
PublishDate: 2020-10-01
LastPublishDate: 2020-10-01
Curator: Anand Rampadarath
Kind: Original Article
PubAuthors: Afshar, N.
    Safaei, S.
    Nickerson, D. P.
    Hunter, P. J.
    Suresh, V.
PubAuthorsORCID: 0000-0002-6671-6920
    0000-0001-5734-243X
    0000-0003-4667-9779
    0000-0001-9665-4145
    0000-0002-7198-1446
PMRURL: https://models.physiomeproject.org/workspace/572
PrimaryPaperName: Computational Modeling of Glucose Uptake in the Enterocyte. 2019, N. Afshar, S. Safaei, D.P. Nickerson, P.J. Hunter, V. Suresh
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2019.00380
FulltextURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Computational_Modelling_of_Glucose_Uptake_in_the_Enterocyte/13034423
ArchiveURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/Computational_Modelling_of_Glucose_Uptake_in_the_Enterocyte/13034423
Abstract: We describe an implemented model of glucose absorption in the enterocyte, as previously published by Afshar et al. Afshar et al. (2019), The model used mechanistic descriptions of all the responsible transporters and was built in the CellML framework. It was validated against published experimental data and implemented in a modular structure which allows each individual transporter to be edited independently from the other transport protein models. The composite model was then used to study the role of the sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT1) and the glucose transporter type 2 (GLUT2), along with the requirement for the existence of the apical Glut2 transporter, especially in the presence of high luminal glucose loads, in order to enhance the absorption. Here we demonstrate the reproduction of the figures in the original paper by using the associated model.
References: 1. Computational Modelling of Glucose Uptake in the Enterocyte. Journal: Frontiers in Physiology. Afshar, Nima and Safaei, Soroush and Nickerson, David Phillip and Hunter, Peter and Suresh, Vinod. Volume: 10. Year: 2019.  <br />2. Mechanisms of glucose uptake in intestinal cell lines: role of GLUT2. Journal: Surgery. Zheng, Ye and Scow, Jeffrey S and Duenes, Judith A and Sarr, Michael G. Volume: 151. Year: 2012.  <br />3. Electrolyte secretion and absorption in the small intestine and colon. Journal: Yamada's Textbook of Gastroenterology. Barrett, Kim E and Keely, Stephen J. Year: 2015.  <br />4. An overview of CellML 1.1, a biological model description language. Journal: Simulation. Cuellar, Autumn A and Lloyd, Catherine M and Nielsen, Poul F and Bullivant, David P and Nickerson, David P and Hunter, Peter J. Volume: 79. Year: 2003.  <br />5. OpenCOR: a modular and interoperable approach to computational biology. Journal: Frontiers in physiology. Garny, Alan and Hunter, Peter J. Volume: 6. Year: 2015.  <br />6. The physiome model repository 2. Journal: Bioinformatics. Yu, Tommy and Lloyd, Catherine M and Nickerson, David P and Cooling, Michael T and Miller, Andrew K and Garny, Alan and Terkildsen, Jonna R and Lawson, James and Britten, Randall D and Hunter, Peter J and others. Volume: 27. Year: 2011.  <br />7. Electrogenic properties of the cloned Na+/glucose cotransporter: II. A transport model under nonrapid equilibrium conditions. Journal: Journal of Membrane Biology. Parent, Lucie and Supplisson, St{\'e}phane and Loo, Donald DF and Wright, Ernest M. Volume: 125. Year: 1992.  <br />8. Transepithelial glucose transport and Na+/K+ homeostasis in enterocytes: an integrative model. Journal: American Journal of Physiology-Cell Physiology. Thorsen, Kristian and Drengstig, Tormod and Ruoff, Peter. Volume: 307. Year: 2014.  <br />9. Carrier-mediated transport through biomembranes. Journal: Transport in Biological Media. Pradhan, Ranjan K and Vinnakota, Kalyan C and Beard, Daniel A and Dash, Ranjan K. Year: 2013.  <br />10. A kinetically defined Na+/H+ antiporter within a mathematical model of the rat proximal tubule.. Journal: The Journal of general physiology. Weinstein, Alan M. Volume: 105. Year: 1995.  <br />11. A mathematical model of the outer medullary collecting duct of the rat. Journal: American Journal of Physiology-Renal Physiology. Weinstein, Alan M. Volume: 279. Year: 2000.  <br />12. Computational modeling of epithelial fluid and ion transport in the parotid duct after transfection of human aquaporin-1. Journal: American Journal of Physiology-Gastrointestinal and Liver Physiology. Fong, Shelley and Chiorini, John A and Sneyd, James and Suresh, Vinod. Volume: 312. Year: 2016.  <br />13. A dynamic model of saliva secretion. Journal: Journal of theoretical biology. Palk, Laurence and Sneyd, James and Shuttleworth, Trevor J and Yule, David I and Crampin, Edmund J. Volume: 266. Year: 2010.  <br />